# Qiskit H₂ ground state finder

## Problem statement

You work for Qhem (pronounced “chem”), a company specialized in innovative research in chemistry. Qhem is a partner of the IBM Q hub at Institut quantique (IQ). Through this partnership, Qhem has privileged access to IBM’s quantum computers. Your boss informs you that Qhem has obtained an important contract from BioMTeQ, a major biotech company which specializes in drug design. BioMTeQ develops new molecules with therapeutic potential, and for this they want to explore quantum computing as a venue to obtain properties of complex molecules. As a proof of concept, you and your team of recently hired quantum specialists at Qhem are required to develop a prototype code that will use IBM quantum computing resources to calculate the dissociation curve of a simple H2 molecule in order to find its ground state. These developments will serve as a starting point for future generalizations to more complex molecules. Although such generalizations are not part of your mandate, your solution should be “future-proof” wherever possible. Your training in quantum chemistry is limited, but your boss allowed you and your team to register to a specialized workshop on this topic.
A team of software engineers at BioMTeQ has initiated work on this project, to find out that they lacked the necessary training in quantum mechanics to go further, hence the contract to Qhem. BioMTeQ’s engineers were nevertheless able to develop a UML (Unified Modelling Language) diagram of the code to be developed based on a VQE (variational quantum eigensolver) method. They also developed a preliminary version of that code in Python using IBM’s open-source software development kit (SDK) called Qiskit. However, this code has holes as they could not pursue it further. The UML diagram and preliminary Python code are your starting points.

To spare precious computing time on IBM’s quantum computing hardware, your boss recommends that you first test your prototype code on the simulator provided by IBM. For this prototype, BioMTeQ’s engineers have seen some literature suggesting to use the standard orbital basis (STO-3G) and the Jordan-Wigner transformation. For a first code prototype, which will likely be far from being optimized, they mention that it will probably be running on 4 qubits. Furthermore, they have seen that, as a second step, the code can be further optimized. For instance, symmetries can be exploited to reduce the number of qubits, error mitigation can be used, measurements on Pauli cliques can be performed, more general VQE forms can be used, and there is some freedom in the choice of the optimization algorithm. Ideally, you would like to reach chemical accuracy with your code, but that may be difficult to achieve. You will have to briefly discuss this topic in your reporting to BioMTeQ.

To be able to use your code after your mandate and pursue their own internal developments, BioMTeQ’s engineers require that your team uses GitHub for managing your code, and that you apply good software engineering practices, which you will need to document. BioMTeQ requires access to your GitHub repository. Notably, code reviews should be conducted by your team as you progress towards a solution. The UML diagram and the code structure proposed by BioMTeQ should not be seen as a strong constraint on the architecture of the software that you are about to develop. The company will appreciate any improvement that could come out of design sessions and your imagination. In any case, a UML class diagram of your solution should be presented.
Your team of 3 members (perhaps 4 as a new member may join) is imposed to you by your company. BioMTeQ requires that at the end of the project you present your work to them in the form of a poster describing your solution to finding the ground state of H2 and possible optimizations you implemented. Furthermore, your poster shall contain information on the way you worked as a team, how you managed your code, and the software engineering process you applied. The poster shall follow best practices in poster preparation and presentation.